Hey guys welcome back to of course so in this lecture I want to talk about a strategy that can help
you close early contracts early on in your business.
There's another strategy that you can use effectively.
It really kind of just depends what you're trying to go for but it's a technique you should least be
aware of.
Now I call this one cell things that require maintenance.
Now there's a little bit more to that.
What I mean by that is if you are particularly going after clients or projects that you know have ongoing
work.
What that means to you is that you can rationalize giving them a heavier discount up front because over
time it's going to pay itself off.
Now it's a good strategy because you know that whatever you're doing is going to require updating maintenance
it's often going to get expanded but the client is not necessarily thinking about that.
So I'll give you an example.
Wordpress is a very popular platform I think it actually powers something like 20 percent of the Internet
right now.
One strategy that I've seen work very often is people will go after others who have blogs and will propose
to put it on wordpress.
It is a good thing to do.
The reason why that is helpful is because when you put it on wordpress the client can actually edit
minimally.
But what almost inevitably always happens is that they want more customization than WordPress can offer.
Now there are an infinite number of things you can do to WordPress and a lot of them are all small pieces
and chunks.
So there are things that are very easy to charge Additionally and theyre very easy to suggest up to
the client because the price is so low.
There are also certain applications just in general not just platforms that just typically are going
to require more maintenance if you are working with a startup that's launching an application and you
know that they're launching with an MVP.
You can obviously subsidize the price upfront.
Get yourself in the door establish that they trust you you can work with them and then you know that
you can benefit from the dividends along the road as they have to update it as they have to go to version
one as they have to update things like security and as they have to iterate once they get some user
feedback.
So be aware of the fact that a lot of projects require maintenance work or at least put you in a position
to up sell them very strongly.
So if that's the case make sure that you compensate on the front end and make sure that the upfront
cost is lower.
Getting in the door with a client is always the hardest part.
Once youve worked with them getting more work from them or having them choose you as their preferred
vendor its so much easier.
Okay so if you're working in platforms take a look around try to look at things that might lend itself
to a project that is kind of ongoing.
Look for those relationships subsidize them upfront to get more of them sooner and to get over kind
of that barrier of acceptance that a new client has seen the next lecture.